{
 "gear": {
     "What are gears":
         """A gear is a wheel with teeth around its circumference. 
         Gears are usually found in sets of two or more, used 
         to transmit rotation from the axis of one gear to the 
         axis of another. The teeth of a gear one one axis mesh 
         with the teeth of a gear on another, thus creating a 
         relationship between the rotation of the two axes. 
         When one axis is spun, the other will too. Two gears 
         of different sizes will make their two axes spin at 
         different speeds, which you'll learn about, along with 
         different types of gears and places they're used.""",
    "Why use gears": 
        """Gears are a very useful type of transmission mechanism 
         used to transmit rotation from one axis to another. 
         As I mentioned previously, you can use gears to change 
         the output speed of a shaft. Say you have a motor that 
         spins at 100 rotations per minute, and you only want 
         it to spin at 50 rotations per minute. You can use a 
         system of gears to reduce the speed (and likewise increase 
         the torque) so that the output shaft spins at half the 
         speed of the motor. Gears are commonly used in high load 
         situations because The teeth of a gear allow for more 
         fine, discrete control over movement of a shaft, which 
         is one advantage gears have over most pulley systems. 
         Gears can be used to transmit rotation from one axis to 
         another, and special types of gears can allow for the 
         transfer of motion to non-parallel axes.""",
    "Parts of a gear": 
        """There are a few different terms that you'll need to 
        know if you're just getting started with gears, as 
        listed below. In order for gears to mesh, the diametral 
        pitch and the pressure angle need to be the same.
        
        Axis: The axis of revolution of the gear, where the 
        shaft passes through.
        
        Teeth: The jagged faces projecting outward from the 
        circumference of the gear, used to transmit rotation 
        to other gears. The number of teeth on a gear must be 
        an integer. Gears will only transmit rotation if their
        teeth mesh and have the same profile.
        
        Pitch Circle: The circle that defines the "size" of the
        gear. The pitch circles of two meshing gears need to be 
        tangent for them to mesh. If the two gears were instead 
        two discs that drove by friction, the perimeter of those 
        discs would be the pitch circle.
        
        Pitch Diameter: The pitch diameter refers to the working 
        diameter of the gear, a.k.a., the diameter of the pitch 
        circle. You can use the pitch diameter to calculate how 
        far away two gears should be: the sum of the two pitch
        diameters divided by 2 is equal to the distance between
        the two axes.
        
        Diametral Pitch: The ratio of the number of teeth to the
        pitch diameter. Two gears must have the same diametral 
        pitch to mesh.
        
        Circular Pitch: The distance from a point on one tooth 
        to the same point on the adjacent tooth, measured along 
        the pitch circle. (so that the length is the length of
        the arc rather than a line).
       
       Module: The module of a gear is simply the circular pitch 
       divided by pi. This value is much easier to handle than 
       the circular pitch, because it is a rational number.
       
       Pressure Angle: The pressure angle of a gear is the angle 
       between the line defining the radius of the pitch circle 
       to the point where the pitch circle intersects a tooth, 
       and the tangent line to that tooth at that point. Standard 
       pressure angles are 14.5, 20, and 25 degrees. The pressure 
       angle affects how the gears contact each other, and thus 
       how the force is distributed along the tooth. Two gears 
       must have the same pressure angle to mesh.""",
       
    "gear ratios":
        """
        In order to drive an output shaft at a desired speed, 
        you need to use a gear system with a specific gear 
        ratio to output that speed. The gear ratio of a 
        system is the ratio between the rotational speed of 
        the input shaft to the rotational speed of the 
        output shaft. There are a number of ways to calculate
        this in a two gear system. The first is via the 
        number of teeth (N) on each gear. To calculate the 
        gear ratio (R), the equation is as follows:

        R = N2/N1
        
        Where N2 refers to the number of teeth on the gear 
        linked to the output shaft, and N1 refers to the 
        same on the input shaft. The left gear in the first 
        image above has 16 teeth, and the right gear has 32 
        teeth. If the left gear is the input shaft. then the 
        ratio is 32:16, which can be simplified to 2:1. This
        means that for every 2 rotations of the left gear, 
        the right gear rotates once.
        
        The gear ratio can also be calculated with the pitch
        diameter (or even the radius) with basically the 
        same equation:
        
        R = D2/D1
        
        Where D2 is the pitch diameter of the output gear,
        and D1 is the pitch diameter of the input gear.
        
        The gear ratio can also be used to determine the 
        output torque of the system. Torque is defined as 
        the tendency of an object to rotate about its axis; 
        basically, the turning power of a shaft. A shaft 
        with more torque can turn larger things. The gear 
        ratio R is also equal to the ratio between the torque
        of the output shaft and that of the input shaft. 
        In the example above, although the 32 tooth gear 
        spins more slowly, it outputs twice the turning 
        power as the input shaft.
        
        In a larger system of gears with multiple gears and 
        shafts, the overall ratio of the system is still the 
        ratio of the speeds of the input and output shafts, 
        there are just more shafts in between. To calculate 
        the overall ratio, it is easiest to start by 
        identifying the gear ratio of each set. Then, 
        starting with the set driving the output shaft and
        working backward, you can multiply the first value 
        in the ratio (the input shaft's speed) by the values 
                      corresponding to the ratio of the next 
                      gear set, and use the value obtained 
                      from the input shaft's speed after t
                      he multiplication as your new input 
                      speed for a net ratio. This may be a 
                      bit confusing, so an example is 
                      provided below.
        
        Say you had a gear train consisting of three sets of 
        gears, one set coming from a motor with a 2:1 ratio, 
        and another set stemming off the output shaft of the 
        first set with a 3:2 ratio, and the next set driving 
        the output of the system, with another 2:1 ratio. To 
        calculate the gear ratio of the overall system, you 
        would start with the last ratio, 2:1. Because the 
        smaller gear on the 3:2 set and the larger gear on 
        the 2:1 set are currently "equal" because of the 
        ratios, the ratio of the input shaft of the second 
        set of gears to the overall system output shaft is 
        3:1. We do that again, multiplying the ratio of the 
        first gear set by 3 (to get 6:3), and combining it 
        with our net ratio (currently 3:1), to get the 
        overall ratio of the system, 6:1.""",
    "types of gears": {
        "spur gears":
            """Spur gears are the most common and simplest type of 
            gear. Spur gears are used to transfer motion from 
            one shaft to a parallel shaft. The teeth are cut 
            straight up and down, parallel to the axis of rotation. 
            When two adjacent spur gears mesh, they spin in 
            opposite directions. These gears are most commonly 
            used because they can be easily cut on a 3 axis 
            machine like a laser cutter, waterjet, or router. 
            Other types of gears require more precise and more 
            complicated machining procedures.""", 
        "gearboxes": 
            """Gearboxes take the rotation of an input shaft, 
            usually the axle of a motor, and through a series 
            of gears alter the speed and power coming from the 
            input shaft to turn an output shaft at a desired 
            speed or torque. Gearboxes are usually classified 
            in terms of their overall speed ratio, the ratio 
            of the speed of the input shaft to the speed of 
            the output shaft.""",
        "bevel gears":
            """Bevel gears are a type of gear used to transmit 
            power from one axis to another non-parallel axis. 
            Bevel gears have slanted teeth, which actually 
            makes the shape of their "pitch diameter" a cone. 
            This is why most bevel gears are classified based 
            on the distance from the rear face of the gear to 
            the imaginary tip of the cone that the gear would 
            form if its teeth extended out. In order for two 
            bevel gears to mesh, the tips of each imaginary 
            cone should meet at the same vertex. When two bevel 
            gears are the same size and turn shafts at 90 
            degree angles, they are called mitre gears.""",
        "rack and pinion": 
            """The rack and pinion converts the rotational motion 
            of a gear (the pinion) to the linear motion of a 
            rack. The pinion is just like any other spur gear, 
            and it meshes with the rack, which is a rail with 
            teeth. The rack slides continuously as the gear 
            rotates.""",
        "internal gears": 
            """An internal gear is simply a gear with teeth on the 
            inside rather than the outside. Internal gears can 
            be used to reduce the amount of space a drive train 
            takes up, or allow something to pass through the 
            center of the axis as the gear is turning. Unlike 
            normal spur gears, an internal gear rotates in the 
            same direction as the normal spur gear spinning it. 
            For the most part, internal gears are used for 
            planetary gearboxes, which I'll talk about next.""",
        "planetary gearboxes": 
            """A planetary gearbox is a specific type of gearbox 
            that uses internal gears. The main components of a 
            planetary gearbox include the sun gear, which is 
            in the center of the gearbox, usually connected to 
            the input shaft of the system. The sun gear rotates 
            a few planet gears, which all simultaneously rotate 
            a large internal gear, called the ring or annular 
            gear. The planet gears are usually constrained by 
            a carrier to keep them from spinning around the 
            sun gear. Planetary gearboxes can take on higher 
            laods than most gearboxes because the load is 
            distributed among all of the planet gears, as 
            opposed to just one spur gear. These gearboxes are 
            great for large gear reductions in small spaces, 
            but can be costly and need to be well lubricated 
            because of their design complexity.""",
        "worm gear":
            """A worm gear is a gear driven by a worm, which is 
            a small, screw-like piece that meshes with the 
            gear. The gear rotates on an axis perpendicular, 
            but on a different plane than, the worm. With 
            each rotation of the worm, the gear rotates by 
            one tooth. This means that the gear ratio of a 
            worm gear is always N:1, where N is the number 
            of teeth the gear has. While most gears have 
            circular pitch, a worm has linear pitch, which 
            is the distance from one turn in the spiral to 
            the next.

            Worm gears can thus be used to drastically reduce the speed 
            and increase the torque of a system in only one step in a 
            small amount of space. A worm gear mechanism could create a 
            gear ratio of 40:1 with just a 40 tooth gear and a worm, while 
            when using spur gears to do the same, you would need a small 
            gear meshing wit another 40 times its size.
            
            Because the worm is a spiral, worm gears are almost impossible 
            to back-drive. What this means is that if you tried spinning 
            the system by its output shaft (on the worm gear) instead of 
            its input shaft (on the worm), then you would not be able to. 
            When a worm gear drives, the spiral spins and slowly inches 
            each tooth forward. If you back-drove the system, the gear 
            would be pushing against the side of the threads without 
            actually turning them. This makes worm gears very valuable 
            in mechanical systems because the axle cannot be manipulated 
            by an external force, and it reduces the backlash and the
             play in the system.""",
        "helical and herringbone gears":
            """Helical gears are a more efficient type of spur gear. 
            The teeth are set at an angle to the axis of rotation,
            so they end up curving around the gear instead of 
            straight up and down like spur gears. Helical gears 
            can be mounted between parallel axes, but can also 
            be used to drive non-parallel axes as long as the 
            angled teeth mesh.

            While the teeth on spur gears engage all at once, in
            that the entire face of a tooth on one gear fully 
            contacts the face of a tooth on an adjacent gear 
            as soon as they mesh, the teeth on helical gears 
            gradually slide into each other. Because of this, 
            helical gears are much better suited for high 
            load and high speed situations. The disadvantage 
            of helical gears is that they require thrust bearings,
            because when the teeth of a helical gear mesh, 
            they produce an axial thrust pushing the gear 
            along its axis of rotation.
            
            This problem can be fixed with herringbone gears, 
            which are basically two helical gears joined 
            together, with their teeth angled in opposite 
            directions. This eliminates the sideways force 
            that helical gears produce because the axial force
            from one side of the herringbone gear cancels out 
            the force on the other side. Herringbone gears, 
            because of their geometry, are harder to manufacture 
            than helical gears.""",
        "cage and peg gears":
            """Cage and peg gears are a certain style of gear 
            mechanisms that are much easier to make, because 
            they can be made cheaply out of wooden boards and 
            dowels. However, they are not very good for high 
            speed or high load situations because they are 
            usually made with a lot of backlash and wiggle-room.
            Cage and peg gears are mostly used to transmit 
            rotation between perpendicular axes. A peg gear 
            is basically a disc with short pegs sticking out 
            from it around its circumference (to form a spur gear),
            or on its face parallel to the axis of rotation 
            (to form a bevel gear). The pegs in these gears act
            as the teeth, and contact one another to spin each
            of the gears. A cage consists of two discs with pegs 
            running between them parallel to the axis of 
            rotation. A cage gear can be used like a worm gear, 
            as each of the dowels on the gear contact the pegs 
            on a normal peg gear. However, this system can be 
            driven from either end.""",
        "mutilated gears":
            """A mutilated gear is a gear whose tooth profile does 
            not extend all the way around its pitch circle. 
            Mutilated gears can be useful for many different 
            purposes. In some cases, you may not need the entire 
            tooth profile of a gear because the gear may never 
            need to rotate 360 degrees, and you could have a 
            linkage, beam, or other mechanism as part of the 
            mutilated side of the gear. In other cases, you may 
            want the mutilated gear to rotate 360 degrees, but 
            you may not want it to be turning another gear all 
            the time. If you rotate a mutilated gear with half 
            its teeth missing, whose teeth mesh with a full spur 
            gear at one rotation every 30 seconds, the spur gear 
            will turn for 15 seconds, and then stay put for 15 
            seconds. In this way you can turn continuous 
            motion into discrete rotational motion, meaning that 
            the input shaft turns continuously and the output 
            shaft turns a little, and then stops, then turns 
            again, then stops again, repeatedly.""",
        "non-circular gears":
            """Although rare in industry, non-circular gears are 
            pretty interesting mechanisms. The diameter of the 
            gears where they are contacting each other change 
            as the gears rotate, so the output speed of the
            system oscillates as the gears rotate. Non-circular 
            gears can take almost any shape. If the two axes 
            constraining the gears are fixed, then the sum of 
            the radii of the gears at the point where they mesh 
            should always be equal to the distance between the 
            two axes.""",
        "ratchets":
            """A ratchet is a fairly simple mechanism that only 
            allows a gear to turn in one direction. A ratchet 
            system consists of a gear (sometimes the teeth are 
                                       different than the 
                                       standard profile) with a 
            small lever or latch that rotates about a pivot point
            and catches in the teeth of the gear. The latch is
            designed and oriented such that if the gear were to 
            turn in one direction, the gear could spin freely 
            and the latch would be pushed up by the teeth, but 
            if the gear were to spin in the other direction, 
            the latch would catch in the teeth of the gear and 
            prevent it from moving.

            Ratchets are useful in a variety of applications, 
            because they allow force to be applied in one
            direction but not the other. These systems are 
            common on bikes (how you can pedal forward to turn 
                             the wheels, but if you pedal 
                             backward the wheel will spin freely),
            some wrenches, and large winches that reel in loads.""",
        "clutches":
            """Clutches are mechanisms found primarily in cars and 
            other road vehicles, and they are used to change the 
            speed of the output shaft, as well as disengage or 
            engage the turning of the output shaft. A clutch 
            mechanism involves at least two shafts, the input 
            shaft, driven by a power source, and the output 
            shaft, which drives the final mechanism. As an 
            example, I'll explain a simple 2 gear clutch 
            mechanism, referencing the image above. The input 
            shaft would have two gears on it of different sizes 
            (the two blue gears on the top shaft), and the output 
            shaft contains two gears that mesh with the gears 
            on the input shaft (the red and green gears), but 
            can rotate freely around the output shaft, so they 
            do not drive it. A clutch disc (the blue grooved 
                                            piece in the middle) 
            sits between the two gears, rotates with the output 
            shaft, and can slide along it. If the clutch disc is 
            pressed against the red gear, the output shaft would 
            engage and turn at the speed defined by the gear 
            ratio of that set of gears (3:2). If the clutch disc 
            presses against the green gear, the output shaft 
            drives at a different gear ratio, defined by that 
            gear set (2:3). If the clutch disc sits between the 
            two gears, then the output shaft is in neutral and 
            is not being driven.
            The clutch disc can engage with the gears in a few 
            different ways. Some clutch discs engage via friction,
            and have friction pads mounted to their sides as 
            well as the sides of the gears. Other clutch discs, 
            like the one in the image above, are toothed, and 
            they mesh with specific teeth on the faces of the 
            gears."""}}}
