https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/electricity/the-science-of-electricity.php#:~:text=Sometimes%2C%20the%20electrons%20in%20an,These%20shifting%20electrons%20are%20electricity.


"""Electricity is the movement of electrons between atoms.
Electrons usually remain a constant distance from the atom's nucleus in precise shells. The shell closest to the nucleus can 
hold two electrons. The next shell can hold up to eight. The outer shells can hold even more. Some atoms with many protons 
can have as many as seven shells with electrons in them. The electrons in the shells closest to the nucleus have a strong 
force of attraction to the protons. Sometimes, the electrons in an atom's outermost shells do not have a strong force of 
attraction to the protons. These electrons can be pushed out of their orbits. Applying a force can make them shift from one
atom to another. These shifting electrons are electricity.

Coulomb’s law
Static electricity is a familiar electric phenomenon in which charged particles are transferred from one body to another. 
For example, if two objects are rubbed together, especially if the objects are insulators and the surrounding air is dry, 
the objects acquire equal and opposite charges and an attractive force develops between them. The object that loses electrons 
becomes positively charged, and the other becomes negatively charged. The force is simply the attraction between charges 
of opposite sign. The properties of this force were described above; they are incorporated in the mathematical relationship 
known as Coulomb’s law.

The first unit of electric current measurement under the international system of units is ampere or amp (A). It denotes the 
number of electrons (aka the electric current) that flows through an electrical circuit at a given point in time. 
Next is volt (V), which is the measurement of the force that pushes the electron through an electric circuit. 
This force is also known as the electric potential difference. When we determine the voltage, we’re calculating the 
potential for the energy to move. Basically, lower voltage equals lower force, and high voltage means higher force. 

To measure electricity, you also need to measure electrical resistance, which is expressed in ohms (Ω). As mentioned, 
copper wire is a conductive material, and since it has minimal resistance, it allows the easy flow of electrons. 
It’s also why copper is a good conductor of electricity, having a low ohm reading. 
"""


"""
Batteries produce electricity
An electrochemical battery produces electricity with two different metals in a chemical substance called an electrolyte. 
One end of the battery is attached to one of the metals, and the other end is attached to the other metal. A chemical 
reaction between the metals and the electrolyte frees more electrons in one metal than it does in the other.

The metal that frees more electrons develops a positive charge, and the other metal develops a negative charge. If an 
electrical conductor, or wire, connects one end of the battery to the other, electrons flow through the wire to balance 
the electrical charge.

An electrical load is a device that uses electricity to do work or to perform a job. If an electrical load—such as an 
incandescent light bulb—is placed along the wire, the electricity can do work as it flows through the wire and the 
light bulb. Electrons flow from the negative end of the battery through the wire and the light bulb and back to the
positive end of the battery.
"""

"""
Electricity travels in circuits
Electricity must have a complete path, or electrical circuit, before the electrons can move. The switch or on-off button 
on all electrical devices closes (turns on) or opens (turns off) an electrical circuit in the device. Turning—or 
switching—off a light opens a circuit and electrons cannot flow through the light. Turning on a light closes a circuit, 
which allows electricity to flow from one electric wire, through the light bulb, and then through another wire.

An incandescent light bulb produces light as electricity flows through a tiny wire in the bulb, which gets very hot
and glows. An incandescent light bulb burns out when the tiny wire inside the bulb breaks, which opens the circuit.
"""

"""
Materials which can pass electrons are known as “Conductors” meaning they can conduct electricity. Most Metals are 
conductors. Atoms which do not have free electrons are known as insulators, materials like glass and rubber are good 
examples of this.

We can combine Conductors and Insulators together to safely use electricity. This is is done by surrounding the conductor 
with an insulator, this allows electrons to flow but it restricts where they can flow to. This is how a cables and 
wires work.
"""

"""
Circuits
The term circuits refers to a route which the electrons can flow along to get between the two terminals of the power 
source (Positive and Negative).

When a circuit is closed then electrons can flow from one terminal to the other. When a circuit is open then there is 
a gap in the circuit so electrons can’t flow.

We can place electrical components in the path of the free electrons which flow in a circuit. This will force the 
electrons to flow through the component and this can be used to perform work such as generate light.
"""

"""
Voltage
Voltage is a pushing force of electrons in a circuit, much like pressure in water pipe. The more pressure you have 
the more water can flow. The more voltage you have the more electrons can flow.

A Volt is a Joule per Coulomb. A Joule is a measurement of energy or work. A Coulomb is a group of flowing electrons.

A 9V battery can provide 9 Joules of energy, in the form of work or heat, per group of electrons that flow from one 
terminal of the battery to the other. In this case the electrons from one terminal of the battery, through the 
L.E.D bulb and then into the other terminal of the battery. Therefore 9 Joules of light and heat is produced by the bulb.
"""

"""
Current, Amperes, and Amps.
Current is the flow of electrons. When a circuit is closed then a current of electrons can flow and when a circuit is open 
then no current can flow. We can measure the flow of electrons just like you can measure the flow of water through a pipe.

To measure the flow of electrons we use the unit of Amperes or Amps for short. 1 Amp means 1 Coulomb per second and one 
coulomb equals 6,242,000,000,000,000,000 electrons per second. This is an extremely large number which is why they are 
grouped together and called Amps.
"""

"""
Resistors and Resistance
Resistance is a restriction to the flow of electrons in a circuit. Wires which carry the current will naturally have some 
resistance. The longer the wire the greater the resistance. The thicker the wire the less the resistance. The resistance 
to the flow of electrons is different for each material, the temperature of the material will also affect the level of 
resistance.

Electrical circuit use specially designed components known as resistors to purposely restrict the flow of electrons. 
This is used to protect other electrical components from receiving too much current and it can also be used to generate 
light and heat such as in an incandescent light bulb.

Resistance occurs when electrons collide with atoms. The number of collisions varies by material, some materials such as 
Iron will have a very high rate of collisions whereas other materials such as copper has much fewer collisions.

When collisions occur the atoms generate heat and at a certain temperature the material will then start to produce 
light as well as heat, which is how the incandescent lamps work.
"""

"""
Inductors and induction
When a wire is wrapped in a coil, it will produce a magnetic field as the current passes through it. The cable would 
naturally create the magnetic field, its just intensified by the shape of the coil. By wrapping the wire in a coil, 
the magnetic field becomes so strong that it starts to affect the electrons within the wire

We can increase the intensity of the magnetic field simply by wrapping the wire around an iron core. We can increase 
the number of rotations within the coil and we can also increase the amount of current passing through the circuit 
to produce larger and stronger magnetic fields. This is how electromagnets work, its also the basis of how induction 
motors work. Click here for more information of the working principle of induction motors.

When a magnetic field is passed across a coil of wire, it will induce a voltage into the wire caused by an induced 
electromotive force which is pushing the electrons in a certain direction. If the coil is connected to a circuit this 
will cause a current to flow. This is the basis of how an AC generator works and the power available in the plug 
sockets of your home was produced in a very similar way.
"""

"""
Transformer
Transformers are a combination of all the points we’ve covered so far in this article. We can create two separate 
circuits and use a transformer to induce current from one circuit into the other.

By generating an AC current in a closed circuit and passing this current trough a coil, which is in close proximity 
to another coil in a separate closed circuit, we can create a transformer and induce a current from the first (primary) 
circuit into the second circuit.

Transformers can be used to increase or decrease the voltage between the primary and secondary circuits simply by 
changing the number of coils on either side.
"""

"""
Capacitors
Capacitors force positive and negative charges to separate across two plates, when it is connected to a power supply. 
This causes a build up of stored electrons within an electric field. When a power supply is cut or interrupted these
charges will then be released where they will then meet up and flow again. This provides a power source by only very 
briefly (seconds) as it will only last until the separated charges have met up again. This is slightly similar to a 
battery except it can’t maintain a power supply for as long.

Capacitors are very common and can be found in pretty much every electrical circuit.
"""

"""
AC and DC power
There are two types of power in use which are Alternating Current (AC) and Direct Current (DC)

Alternating current simply means the current flow backwards and forwards in a circuit as the terminals are constantly 
reversed. This is a bit like the tide of the sea, it goes in and out repeatedly. Alternating current is the most common 
type of electrical power and this is the type of power available in the power sockets of your home.

Direct Current simply means that the current flow directly in only one direction. This is what’s provided from 
batteries and Photovoltaic panels etc. This is most commonly used in portable electrical goods.

We can convert between AC and DC using inverters, this is how the AC power from our household power sockets can be 
used to charge our mobile phones which use DC power. Click here to learn how inverters work

Thank concludes this article for the basics of how electricity works. Below is a video tutorial on the subject with 
more information and animations.
"""

